# End-to-End-SQL-Project-Pizza-Shop
Detailed review of a personal MySQL end-to-end project.

## **Overview**

This repository documents the process of building a comprehensive database for a Pizza Shop portfolio project. The goal was to create an efficient and well-organized database structure to facilitate various analyses and visualizations for a mock business which specialised in pizza delivery using resources from **Adam Finer - Learn BI Online**. The project involved using pre-generated tables provided by the 'business' from Excel files, normalizing the data, defining relationships, and creating **MySQL queries** for specific business questions. The resulting database was then visualized using **Power BI**.

# **Table Generation and Normalisation**
Tables were pre-generated by the 'business' based on the portfolio requirements from the business owner. The initial step involved identifying table schemas and normalizing the data to eliminate redundancies and enhance data integrity. 
## Steps taken:
### Data Normalisation
1) Identification of redunancies in the data. This included much of the customer data, delivery information and the items ordered. 
2) Eliminated unstructured/redundant data to enhance data storage and editing efficiency by creating seperate tables grouped to certain attributes based on the original orders excel document.
3) Split delivery information into four distinct parts using Excel to allow for further analysis in the visualisation stage.
### Table Generation
1) Used the QuickDBD tool to generate tables matching the Excel table schemas.
2) Applied the appropriate datatypes to each of the fields. Making sure to future proof for potential business expanision i.e. increasting varchar() and decimal limits for customer growth and price amendments.
3) Implemented a number of NULL constraints on relevant fields to preserve data integrity for non-critical portions of data which are analytically and statistically relevant.
### Table Relationships
1) Utilised the built in tool in QuickDBD for rapid table linking to define the relationships between keys.
2) Defined the foreign key relationships between the tables to maintain data consistency.

# MySQL Queries for Proposed Business Questions
MySQL Queries were developed to answer specific business questions posed by the shop owned. These queries would eventually be visualised as dashboards using programs such as Power BI. The questions were as follows:
1) Total number of orders
2) Total number of sales
3) Total items sold
4) Average order value
5) Sales by catergory
6) Top selling items
7) Orders by hour
8) Sales by hour
9) Orders by address
10) Orders by delivery/pickup

